> :warning: **This repo is not ready for serious use**: Currently exploring patterns and options and may change out from under you!

# Create NJS App

Create, build, and test [NJS](https://nginx.org/en/docs/njs/) addons for NGINX.

## Goals/Roadmap
* Transpile most code with packages from NPM to javascript that can run on the NJS interpreter
* Find a less hacky way to handle default exports (maybe a webpack plugin)
* Provide transpilation targets for both nsj cli tool and usage via various directives in [ngx_http_js_module](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_js_module.html) and [ngx_stream_js_module](https://nginx.org/en/docs/stream/ngx_stream_js_module.html)
* Provide a testing example and run commands
* Support typescript transparantly
* Provide a guide to choosing transpilation vs handrolled njs code
  * Provide a guide to writing performant and secure njs code
  * Enumerate differences from other popular interpreters

* Think about an app generation pattern (see `create-react-app`) or maybe something like old `yeoman`
* Think about a cleaner pattern for scripts and maintaining an njs binary
* Think about incorporating and actual nginx server in the test/dev loop
* Provide and example of a workflow using the webpack dev server

## Where I left off

---

## Getting Started
1. For now, just clone the repository:
`git clone git@github.com:4141done/create-njs-app.git`

2. Install dependendecies.  Create NJS App assumes you have node 14+.  It comes with a `.tool-versions` and `.nvmrc` so to make sure you have a good node version you can just `asdf install` from the root directory

```
# If using asdf
asdf install

# If using nvm
nvm install

# Install dependencies
npm install

```

3. Setting up NJS
This will install the NJS commandline tool for you. Currently we assume that you have a compatible version of [pcre2](https://github.com/PhilipHazel/pcre2/releases)
and [OpenSSL](https://www.openssl.org/source/) installed on your system.  Later versions of this README will provide guides to installing these tools
from source or build the installation into the setup script

```
./setup.sh
```

## Usage
The following example shows you how to write some njs code, import a dependency, and build it.

### Writing your code
Your code will be written in the `./src/script.js` file for now.  In the future the project will let you have multiple files.  For now just leave the file location and name alone.

The `./src/script.js` file contains example code that already works, so let's just modify it in a small way.  Maybe we want to build a little endpoint that returns the version of our njs code:
```javascript
function version(r) {
  // See https://nginx.org/en/docs/njs/reference.html for the javascript API reference
  r.return(200, '1.0.1');
}

export default { version };
```

### Adding a dependency
> :warning: TODO: find a better example
Say we want our version number response to include a request id, but specifically we want it to be a type generated by `nanoid`.
First, from the command line: `npm install --save nanoid`

```javascript

import { nanoid } from 'nanoid/non-secure';

function version(r) {
  // See https://nginx.org/en/docs/njs/reference.html for the javascript API reference
  r.headersOut['X-Request-ID'] = nanoid();
  r.return(200, '1.0.1');
}

export default { version };
```

### Building
`npm run build` run from the commandline will produce the file `_build/bundle.js`;

### Testing
Note that the following assumes that you have the njs module installed.
<details>
  <summary>If you don't, click here for instructions!</summary>
  
  TODO: Easy NJS installation instructions
</details>

Let's create a config file.  Create a file called `njs_test.nginx.conf` with the following content:
```
load_module modules/ngx_http_js_module.so;

events {}

http {
  js_path "<absolute_path>/create-njs-app/_build";

  js_import js from bundle.js;

  server {
    listen 8080;

    location /version {
      js_content js.version;
    }
  }
}
```
Note that the `js_path` directive will need to have the absolute path to the `_build` directory. Make sure you replace `<absolute_path>` in the above code with the actual path to the `_build` directory.

The file name has no significance and can be named whatever you'd like.

Next, let's make sure that nginx is stopped:
`nginx -s stop`
If you see a message that looks like `nginx: [error] open() "/var/run/nginx.pid" failed (2: No such file or directory)` that just means it was not running to begin with.

Start NGINX with your new config `nginx -c <path_to_config>/njs_test.nginx.conf`

Now we can test:
```bash
04/11/2022 02:49:10 PM > curl -i http://localhost:8080/version
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx/1.21.0
Date: Mon, 11 Apr 2022 21:49:11 GMT
Content-Type: text/plain
Content-Length: 5
Connection: keep-alive
X-Request-ID: IuS1amoODZRer3zPkCT_z

1.0.1
```

## Command Reference
### Building
You can build the script to two targets:
#### Directive (default)
Running `npm run build` will produce a bundle targeted at the `js_import` directive. If you want to be explicit, you can call `npm run build -- -t directive`.

#### CLI
`npm run build -- -t cli` will build the bundle without an `export default` statement.  This is useful for testing raw js code to see if it will run using the `njs` commandline tool


### Using the commandline
Make sure you've run `./setup.sh` before trying to use the command line tool.
`npm run njs` will get you into a repl where you can try out commands.

`npm run njs <path_to_file` will execute a file in the njs interpreter.

# TODO: how to load a file into the interpreter and play with it.
